.TH nds_query 1 "November 25, 2013" "" "nds_query - "

.SH NAME
nds-query \- interface to most nds2 client functions

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nds_query [--version] [--server-version] [--server-protocol]
          [--channel-list-pre-fetch] [--count | -k] [--hash | -h]
          [-g] [-l] [-n <server>] [-p <port>] [--epoch <epik>]
          [-s <start-gps>] [-e <end-gps>] [-d <delta-t>]
          [<channel-list>]
where: 
    -d      Time stride [2]
    -e      End gps time [start_gps + delta]
    -g      Request a list of channel groups (NDS1 only)
    -h      Get hash of selected channels
    -k      Get number of selected channels
    -l      List available channels
    -n      Specify server IP address
    -p      Specify port number [31200]
    -s      Specify start time (as GPS)
    -t      Specify default channel type.
    -v      Verbose printout (dump channel data)
    -1      NDS1 protocol
    -2      NDS2 protocol
    --channel-list-pre-fetch   Force prefetching of the channel list
            when communicating with version 2 servers
    --epoch limit times to <epik> specified as a run name
            (e.g. 'S6'), 'start-stop' or 'start:length'
    --sample-format    printf format for data dump
    --samples-per-line samples dumped per line
    --version          print version of client and exit
    --server-version   print version of server and exit
    --server-protocol  print protocol used by the server and exit
    <channel-list> Space delimited channel list

  If the protocol is not specified, nds_query tries  nds2 protocol, and if this fails, reverts to nds1 protocol.
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B nds_query 
is a powerful tool that brings most of the features of the NDS2 client library to the command
line. It is used most often to verify that the server and client are working properly.

To use any nds2-client with a protected server the user must have a valid Kerberos ticket. See (?) for a  brief introduction to using Kerberos.

.SH EXAMPLE

nds_query -l -n nds.ligo.caltech.edu -t reduced | head

This command will query the nds2 server at Caltech for a list of reduced data set channels and print the
first few from the list.

.SH EXAMPLE

Example: nds_query -n nds.ligo-wa.caltech.edu -s 1064620816 -e 1064620826 H1:PSL-ISS_PDA_OUT_DQ

The above command will print a summary of 10 seconds of data for the specified channel from the NDS2 server
at the Hanford Observatory. If the verbose switch (-v) is used all the data will be printed as ascii values. The output looks like:

         Data for 2 seconds starting at GPS: 1064620816
         Channel                                  type    nWords
         H1:PSL-ISS_PDA_OUT_DQ                    real_4  65536
         Data for 2 seconds starting at GPS: 1064620818
         Channel                                  type    nWords
         H1:PSL-ISS_PDA_OUT_DQ                    real_4  65536
         Data for 2 seconds starting at GPS: 1064620820
         Channel                                  type    nWords
         H1:PSL-ISS_PDA_OUT_DQ                    real_4  65536
         Data for 2 seconds starting at GPS: 1064620822
         Channel                                  type    nWords
         H1:PSL-ISS_PDA_OUT_DQ                    real_4  65536
         Data for 2 seconds starting at GPS: 1064620824
         Channel                                  type    nWords
         H1:PSL-ISS_PDA_OUT_DQ                    real_4  65536


.SH "SEE ALSO"

The other programs in the nds client packare are  nds2_channel_source, nds-client-config,  NDS2Frame,  nds2-tun‐
       nel(deprecated)
